Power Supply:

1) What is the main aim of the computer power supply?
  - converts AC(alternating current) current to DC(direct current) current;


2) You have a desktop PC that you have been using for 3 years in the United States.
You are going on a study-abroad program for 1 semester and want to take your computer with you.
After some research, you have found out that the country you are going to uses a different voltage than that in the United States.
What should you do so that the computer can be compatible with the electrical power in Europe?
State your reasons why. 
  - check your power supply on PC for multi-voltage;
  - if it is good for 100-250V, 50-60Hz, you have to change only plug adapter;
  - because in Europe we have 220v and in USA we have 110v;


3) You have a desktop computer that you want to upgrade. 
You add several internal components and external components.
You realize that you need to ensure that your power supply can support all the new devices.
What should you do?  
  - summarize the power consumption of all components and compare with the power value of the power supply;


4) The yellow wire connected to a power supply carries 12V.
If the power supply provides 120W of power to the yellow wire, how much current is passing through the yellow wire?
  I = P / V = 120 / 12 = 10A


5) There are 3.3V passing through an orange power supply cable, and there are 0.05 ohms of resistance in the orange wire.
How much power is supplied to the orange wire by the power supply?  
  P = V^2 / R = 3.3^2 / 0.05 = 10.89 / 0.05 = 217.8W


6) A wire from the power supply is carrying 400W of power and 24A of current.
Which color(s) of cable is the wire?
  V = P / I =  400 / 24 = 16.6A
  This is a yellow cable;
  

-----------------------------------

1) Describe the components of the CPU and how the Fetch Execute Cycle works.
Use diagrams to illustrate your point.
  - is the basic operation cycle of a computer;

  Store - The newly processed is written back into the memory location on the HSS or SSD;
  Fetch - The CPU retrieves instructions from a system hard drive or solid-state drive and stores them in a register location;
  Decode - The CPU determines which system components are required in the execution of the instruction, outlining parameters for a successful execution;
  Execute - The CPU assigns specific actions to the relevant system component in order to carry out the initial program instructions processing the actual data;
  
  E-Time: Execute -> Store
  I-Time: Fetch -> Decode


2) What are the following processor features?  
  2.1) Multicore processor:
    - has multiple processors within a single package; 

  2.2) Hyperthreading:
    - is a feature of some processors that allows a single processor to run threads in parallel;

  2.3) Throttling
    - is a process of modifying the operating characteristics of a processor based on current conditions;


3) What are the function of the expansions slots on the motherboard?
Give examples.
  - Expansion slots on a motherboard serve the purpose of allowing additional components to be added to a computer system;

  PCI - network cards, sound cards, video cards;
  PCIe - graphics cards, SSDs, Wi-Fi adapters;
  RAM - RAM modules;
  ISA - network cards;
  M.2 - SSDs, Wi-Fi/Bluetooth cards; 

4) USB devices can be classified as self-powered or bus-powered.
Explain what is meant be each of these classifications.  
  Bus-Powered: is one that draws its power directly from the USB bus to which it is connected;
  Self-Powered: is one that has its own external power source, independent of the USB bus;


5) What is the main aim of the computer power supply?
  - converts AC current to DC current


6) You have a desktop PC that you have been using for 3 years in the United States.
You are going on a study-abroad program for 1 semester and want to take your computer with you.
After some research you have found out that the country you are going to uses different voltage than that in the United States.
What should you do so that the computer can be compatible with the electrical power in Europe?
State your reasons why?
  - check your power supply on your PC for multi-voltage;
  - if it is good for 100-250V and 50-60Hz, you have to change only plug adapter;
  - because in Europe we have 220V and in USA we have 110V;


7) The yellow wire connected to a power supply carries 12V.
If the power supply provides 120W of power to the yellow wire, how much current is passing through the yellow wire?
  I = P / V = 120 / 12 = 10A 


8) Differentiate between a brownout and a surge outlining the impact on the computer?
  - Brownout involves a reduction in voltage, leading to potential performance issues and hardware damage;
  - Surge involves a sudden increase in voltage, which can cause immediate damage to electronic components;


9) Electrostatic discharge (ESD) is the release of static electricity when two objects come into contact.
It has the capability of causing enough damage to the components inside your computer to render it completely inoperable.
How can you protect the computer system from ESD?
  - Use an Anti-Static Wrist STrap;
  - Work on an ESD-Safe surface;
  - Handle components carefully;
  - Ground yourself before touching components;
  - Use ESD-Safe tools;
